\chapter{Personal Reports}

\section*{Report: Marc Juchli}

\subsection*{Task}

Initially I could not directly imagine what processes are hidden behind a
messaging system, nor the steps it takes to build such a system from scratch.
During the prestudy it turned out that I let myself into a topic which will soon
become one of the most interesting things I've discovered at HSR. Combined with
the functional programming language Haskell which I was already confronted with
in my semester abroad at UCSB I became even more interested in this thesis.  The
combination of constant research and challenges in the implementation part is
what I appreciated most during this thesis and the fact that we created a
working product in the end brang deep satisfaction to me.


\subsection*{Teamwork}



\subsection*{Negative Experience}

I confronted the beginning of this thesis with a mix of frustration and
motivation. Messaging as well as Haskell presented themselves as topics with
steep learning curves. It took a vast amount of time to not only get an
understanding but also to be able to produce an outcome. But after a while this
became more and more a motivation rather than frustration. This went on until
the end of this thesis and I'm now more fascinated than every before about
Haskell and Messaging. Especially the gained knowledge and approaches I learnt
during the work with Haskell is what I treasure most.

I'm looking forward to hopefully be able to continue working on this subject
during my master studies.


\section*{Report: Lorenz Wolf}

\subsection*{Task}
The given task combines two topics I am very interested in: Data integration
with messaging and the functional programming language Haskell. Messaging is
something I get in touch from time to time during my studies but only
theoretically. My intent for the bachelor thesis was really to get in touch with
the concepts and underlying technologies in detail. To combine this by learning
a new progamming paradigm was additional motivation to choose this challenging
topic for my thesis.

\subsection*{Teamwork}
The thesis was predestined for working in a team of two. 

\subsection*{Negative Experience}
\subsection*{Positive Experience}


